alrighty ladies and gentlemen welcome to
the horror mine where we talk about
mysteries thrillers and horror movies my
name is vic shy and this week my friends
i'll be going over the criminally
underrated hong kong 2013 horror film
rigor mortis the film is produced by
japanese filmmaker takashi shimizu most
notably known for creating the joon or
grudge series which i'll eventually be
covering on the channel once i grow a
pair of balls directed by hong kong
director juno mack riga mortis is a
beautiful stylish and haunting film with
some of the most unique imagery i've
ever seen in a horror movie the film is
a tribute to the popular hong kong
comedy series called mr vampire with
many of its cast members returning for
the film rigor mortis deals heavily with
the themes of grief depression and
loneliness which make it quite the
emotional venture i'll be going over the
events that take place throughout the
film and explaining the ending that had
me wondering what the hell just happened
if you enjoyed this video feel free to
click the like button as it really helps
the channel and i truly appreciate it
but without further ado sit back and
relax and join me as we explore the
extremely haunted apartment complex and
rigor mortis our movie begins with the
aftermath of a chaotic and bloody fight
accompanied by a haunting song
[Music]
we made our main character portrayed by
chen c ho playing a fictional version of
himself who i'll be referring to his
chin chin is a retired actor who appears
to have lost his fame fortune and
happiness while in the elevator a little
boy with white hair rushes in covered in
some sort of sauce or honey we hear
banging coming from outside the elevator
which suggests that the little boy may
have stolen food and ran off the little
boy runs off into the complex and rings
an old bell hanging from a string chin
arrives at his apartment number 2442
which has a taoist talisman hanging on
the door talismans are most commonly
known for bringing good luck and
protection from demons or evil spirits
we meet an old man named uncle yin who
is the security guard for the apartments
uncle yin says that he knows all the
residents and their daily habits and
tells chin not to worry as this is a
safe neighborhood he then knocks on the
door to the vacant apartment as if
respectfully announcing his entrance
before entering uncle yin walks inside
looking around and seeming a little
nervous you sure you don't have anything
to tell us there bud he proceeds to burn
some incense sticks as a way of clearing
out negative energy and as a show of
respect he is clearly talking to an
unknown entity that may be occupying the
vacant apartment chin lays out his
belongings which includes several of his
costumes from his acting days standing
on a chair with a noose around his neck
he listens to a voice message on his
phone left by his son the son says that
his mom made him wash off the watch he
drew for him and asks his dad when he is
going to come home we see chin sporting
the same hand-drawn rolex on his left
wrist that he has yet to wash off we get
some pretty creepy imagery that together
with the circumstances seem to suggest
that shin's wife and son tragically
passed away when his cigarette goes out
he jumps from the chair and hangs
himself while the life is slowly leaving
his body we get some pretty cryptic
imagery which seem to depict a cycle of
life death and decay all while a ghostly
entity rises underneath a bed sheet and
approaches the dying chin the ghost then
appears to possess chin's dying body and
attempts to break free from the news or
maybe it just likes to dance stylishly
in mid-air a man suddenly bursts into
the apartment and cuts chin from the
rope the possessed chin attacks the man
and the two begin to fight stepping on
chin's cell phone in the process the man
forces chin's face in front of a mirror
which reveals that he is possessed by
the ghost of a woman he then tosses chin
against the wall which seems to cast out
the woman's spirit chin wakes up to
dozens of residents being nosy as hell
and profusely throws up some black
sludge something commonly associated
with demonic and ghostly possessions hey
guys what's up i'm your new neighbor
that night chin reflects on his failed
suicide attempt while listening to the
now distorted message on his phone
before it dies he hears a noise at his
front door and sees a creepy woman
looking through his peephole he opens
the door to find the woman eating food
offerings in the hallway the woman's
name is fang and she is the mother of
pack the little boy with white hair seen
earlier the two are homeless and wander
the complex eating the food offerings
left out by the residents she takes a
glance inside of the apartment and sees
the image of a dead woman hanging from
the ceiling
[Applause]
she apologizes for eating the food
offerings and leaves completely
terrified we then formally meet yao the
man who saved chen the previous day yao
owns a small restaurant and cooks for
all the residents of the apartment even
the dead ones
i absolutely love the imagery in the
scene the way the ghost of auntie lie is
slightly visible through the cigarette
smoke is one of this film's many unique
and haunting visuals yao has a
conversation with chin where we learn
that he is a retired vampire hunter
although he still always carries
gluttonous rice on his person chinese
vampires also known as zheng shi hopping
vampire are afraid of gluttonous rice
kind of like garlic for vampires of the
west we also meet auntie muy a kind and
beloved old lady who lives with her
husband tongue auntie mui sews
everybody's clothes and even takes care
of all the children she asks him if he's
noticed anything strange in his
apartment but he tells her that he
doesn't believe in the supernatural
auntie muy fixes one of her neighbor's
outfits with the help of her husband
tongue tongue has a pretty big mouth and
thinks that yao is giving them free food
to make them fat believing it to be a
conspiracy
while taking out the trash tongue hears
the crying and laughter of children
coming from the bottom of the stairwell
he looks down to investigate but if i
heard that my apartment would be up
released the very next day he sees a
pale little boy cowering in the corner
whom we see has a disfigured face if the
grudge films taught me anything it's
that it's already too damn late tongue
slips on the slippery staircase and
seemingly breaks his neck to his death
although she isn't aware of what
happened auntie muy definitely feels a
disturbance in the force tongue returns
home to a lovely foot bath courtesy of
anti-mui his feet feel extremely cold
and he cryptically tells her that he
will be back in a few days auntie muy
wakes up from her dream where in reality
tongue never made it home uncle gin
notices the bloody aftermath of tongues
fall and finds a gold tooth on the
ground little pack walks around like he
owns the place and goes into any
apartment he wants at any time he even
likes to take a piss and other people
sinks pak leaves his drawing pad in
chin's apartment which is filled with
the creepy drawings we've come to expect
from horror movie children auntie muy
reaches out to a witch doctor named gao
with the hopes of bringing tongue back
to life gao is an obvious practitioner
of black magic and performs a dark
ritual that he says will bring tongue
back to life in 7 days he places a mask
made of coins on tong's face and says
that she must not take it off sacred
horror movie rule number 5 states that
they shall do the exact opposite of what
the subject matter expert instructed gao
briefly mentions another method of
reviving tongue but states it at his
extreme last resort gao himself appears
extremely sick and uses dark magic to
light up a joint and get like a little
wasted against the god's will man if you
look closely the smoke from his joint
appears to be in the shape of a baby we
are then treated to the coolest and
creepiest scene in the film chin comes
across thing and pack in the hallway and
think suddenly becomes terrified four
large ghostly figures holding umbrellas
approach them looking menacing as hell
the ghosts are known in chinese
mythology as the hay bai wu chong
chinese reapers of the underworld like
the grim reaper of the western culture
the hey by wuchong are tasked with
guiding recently deceased souls to the
next life they are also tasked with
hunting down wandering souls that are
unable or refuse to move on they trap
the souls in their umbrellas that act as
a sort of catcher's net the superstition
of opening an umbrella indoors is linked
to this myth as one may open an umbrella
and unknowingly release the captured
soul trapped inside the hey by wu chong
are harmless to living humans unless you
get in their way which is why fang tells
chin to stay close to the walls as we'll
come to find out the chinese reapers are
wandering the halls searching for a
specific soul chin follows pak and fang
to the basement where they sleep he
comes across uncle gin who has been
looking after feng and her son for quite
some time it is revealed that feng lived
in apartment 2442 with her husband years
ago her husband was tutoring two twin
teenage girls that lived in the
neighborhood in a very disturbing scene
we see that fang's husband brutally
raped one of the twins the other twin
then killed him by stabbing him multiple
times with scissors however the scissors
went through his body and she ended up
stabbing herself multiple times as well
killing her the remaining twin hung
herself in her grief and fang came home
to the gruesome aftermath fang went
crazy and hasn't been able to step foot
in the apartment ever since she is
tormented by visions of the dead twins
who we now know are the ones haunting
the apartment the twins resemble onrios
from japanese culture known in chinese
mythology as new gui vengeful spirits
unable to move on due to their anger and
hatred from having been wronged in their
lifetime auntie muy has a one-sided
conversation with tongue who has
definitely seen some better days this
scene is a direct contrast to the
earlier scene where tongue was alive and
couldn't stop talking about conspiracies
now silent auntie muy is desperate for
even a slight acknowledgement or sign of
life from her lover
hola hey yum
gives an amazing and heartbreaking
performance as auntie muy you can't help
but to feel bad for her given the
situation even though we know what she's
doing is clearly wrong
chin goes to yao and asks him to help
take care of the twin ghosts in room
2442 yao is reluctant to do so and tells
chen about his father who was a taoist
monk and vampire hunter his father left
for work one day and never returned
leaving yao all alone he has been living
here ever since i just loved how they
had the young version of yaowar the
exact same glasses as his adult version
it's like they thought we wouldn't be
able to tell it was him unless he was
wearing the trademark glasses yaw was
left all his father's supernatural
fighting tools one of which is a
mysterious stone tablet used by his
family for generations chin returns to
his apartment and is suddenly splashed
with blood and choked by gao he places a
paper amulet on his forehead and uses
chit as bait to draw off the twins the
twins take debate and the fight is on
the extremely powerful twins prove too
much for gao who gets his ass handed to
him yao then joins in on the fight which
then becomes pretty epic if you ask me
gao again uses someone as bait when he
purposely distracts yao so one of the
twins will attack him he retreats into
the darkness and prepares a supernatural
string merge with his blood he grabs the
ghost off of yao and pulls it back into
the darkness
yao pulls out a string of his own and
the two successfully captured the twins
inside of a wooden cabinet i absolutely
love this fight scene which was both
cool and scary as hell yao tells gao to
burn the closet but by the look on his
face he has something else in mind for
the twins chin gets one step closer to
moving on when he washes off the watch
drawn by his son
[Music]
this must have been extremely hard for
him to do and i can't imagine how
painful it must have felt no longer
being haunted by the twins fing is now
able to step inside of the apartment
without being tormented this is a big
step towards living a normal life again
not only for fang and pack but for chin
as well through all their grief and
suffering they have all found comfort in
each other which is where the heart of
this movie lies
[Music]
yao notices the absence of tongue and
speaks to uncle yin about his
whereabouts uncle yin tells him that he
heard from fang that tongue was killed
by a man with lots of kids he then shows
him tongues gold tooth he found at the
bottom of the stairwell auntie maui has
now grown desperate and asks scout for
the alternative way to revive tongue he
reluctantly tells her that they need the
blood of a virgin as a sacrifice uncle
yin shows up to the apartment and
sneakily drops some candies on the floor
to lure out any kids that may be hiding
it's clear that he believes that gao is
somehow involved in tongues
disappearance his trap proves successful
as a ghostly child grabs one of the
candies off the floor
the candies in this scene are chewy
white rabbit candies and let me tell you
they are absolutely delicious and
addicting auntie muy fears that uncle
yin will ruin everything and proceeds to
brutally murder him by bashing his face
in multiple times with an urn this shows
that auntie mooey has reached a point of
no return she will now stop at nothing
and even resort to murder to bring back
the love of her life yao sees pack on
his way to auntie muy's apartment and
tags along to investigate she tells
y'all that tongue has been feeling under
the weather lately but that everything
will be fine pak then runs into the
apartment and the look on auntie mui's
face showcases acting at the highest
level unaware of the dangers and evil
inside yao leaves pack alone with auntie
muy in an extremely dark and tragic
scene auntie muy offers pack to tongue
as a sacrifice to bring him back to life
his death isn't actually shown on screen
but auntie muy's reaction during the
death was one of the biggest holy [ __ ]
moments of the movie and one of the many
reasons why i love asian cinema
[Music]
yao's device opens up as a direct
response to tung's now completed
transformation into a shangshi he heads
to auntie muy's apartment which is
completely destroyed and covered in
blood
he discovers a mortally wounded gao who
admits to having created the shang shi
we see a flashback that reveals tongue's
initial tumble did not kill him gao is
the one who discovered tongue's body
after the fall which was caused by the
ghost of the child from gao's apartment
gow was carrying tongue's body thinking
he was dead but upon realizing he was
still alive tossed him over the guard
rail to his death fang was a witness to
this heinous crime but who's going to
believe the crazy lady that eats
everybody's food this is where gao's
sinister planet true intentions of
reviving tongue are revealed gao reveals
that he is in the terminal stages of
lung cancer he says that he has been
smoking the ashes of unborn children to
prolong his life which explains why the
smoke from his blood resembled the shape
of a baby the ghosts of the children
following him are possibly the souls of
the unborn children this is who the way
by wu chong were looking for as gao was
extending his life past the expiration
date he needed the souls of the twin
ghosts to inhabit tongue's body as a
sort of vessel so that he could burn the
body for more ash the souls of the twin
ghosts were much more powerful and would
help prolong his life better than the
unborn children knowing that she would
do anything to bring her lover back he
manipulated auntie muy into preparing
tong's body for the twins as we can see
auntie mui went too far and things are
now severely out of control gao then
dies from his injuries that he sustained
from trying to control the shank [ __ ]
yao goes into the bathroom and sees that
it is covered in blood and flesh mixed
with strands of white hair fang walks
around the complex ringing her bell
looking for pack unaware of his fate she
hears a noise coming from gao's
apartment and goes in thinking that pack
may be in there she enters his dark room
and hears something reacting to the bell
coming from inside the cabinet thinking
pack is inside she opens the closet and
unknowingly unleashes the twin ghosts
he obviously wasn't in the closet that
was moving on its own so close that [ __ ]
up man yao tells chin about what
happened enough pax's death he says that
he will set up a trap to capture the
shank she and that chin needs to go look
for fang fang encounters pax's ghost in
the hallway and realizes that her son is
dead enraged by her son's murder she
comes face to face with the shank she
whom she lured using her blood she
bravely tries her darndest to kill the
vampire but he is way too powerful for a
mere mortal and kills her chin arrives a
little too late and tosses a molotov
cocktail at the shangshi with a ton of
style
he manages to temporarily take down the
shangshi but the twins suddenly appear
and possess his body the now overpowered
possessed shank she impales chin with a
metal pole and gets away yao finds the
severely injured chin and uses a spell
to temporarily heal and strengthen him
they lure the zheng shi into a fight
with chin hoping to destroy it for good
but only have a short amount of time yao
uses his hunting tablet to trap the
zheng xi using the elements of water
earth wood and metal yamas stab his
fingers into the tablet and causes his
blood to run into the creases which
allow the tablet to turn yao's arm is
stuck in place and must turn with the
tablet in order to function chin and
tongue get into a brawl but the zheng
shi proves too much for chin
he is unable to defeat the vampire
before the time runs out and the final
turn of the tablet causes yao's arm to
rip from his body in a last effort yao
tosses chin a wooden sword attached to a
string the sword quickly breaks but chin
manages to stab tongue in the neck with
it yao notices the sun rising and seeing
no other choice jumps out of a window
dragging chin and tongue along with him
tongue's body bursts into flames as soon
as he makes contact with the sun and all
three fall to the bottom floor the twins
are expelled from tongues body as a
result and we see auntie muy emerging
from the darkness realizing that she has
lost the love of her life for good
auntie muy slices her throat with a
piece of glass before completely turning
into ashes tung's eyes briefly appear to
turn back to normal we also see a shot
of the twins embracing who appear to
have moved on snow lightly begins to
fall as chin and yao sadly die of their
injuries in the film's final scene it is
revealed that the entire events of the
film were a figment of chin's
imagination playing in his mind right
after hanging himself in reality all the
inhabitants of the apartment are normal
people with no ties to the supernatural
world fang and pak are normal happy
residents yao is just a cook and auntie
muy is mourning the death of tongue like
a regular person yao discovers chin's
dead body who in reality successfully
committed suicide gao is the medical
examiner at the moor where chin's body
is taken we see the last bit of light
exiting chin's eyes signaling that his
body has fully undergone rigor mortis in
the film's final scene chin's son who is
alive and grown up comes to the morgue
to identify chin's body as the movie
ends this shows that the failure and end
of chin's acting career was the true
leading factor of his suicide it is also
possible that chin's wife left him as
opposed to dying the ending led me to
the question just how the hell did chin
make up such a well-crafted and detailed
supernatural universe all in his mind
this can be explained as chin was an
actor and possibly acted in numerous
films that involved the supernatural one
of the film costumes he kept resembled
an old official uniform from the king
dynasty something that chinese vampires
are commonly portrayed and wearing
showing that he must have had extensive
prior knowledge of the shangshi which is
also widely recognized among chinese
culture it's reasonable to assume that
the events we saw play out before us
were a combination of chin's real life
demons and struggles mixed in with the
supernatural and fantasy elements of his
acting career chin must have been
ashamed of how he chose to die and his
mind created a reality in which he died
as a hero and that my friend was rigor
mortis ladies and gentlemen this is in
my opinion one of the most underrated
horror films i've ever seen there are
only a few reviews of this film
currently up on youtube and i feel that
this film deserves a lot more
recognition rigor mortis is a truly
beautiful horror film filled with
stunning visuals brilliant performances
and a great story i don't think i've
ever seen a martial arts horror film
before and this one did not disappoint
rigor mortis had some action-packed
fight sequences that blended well with
carefully crafted horror and chinese
mythology woven throughout the music in
the film was absolutely amazing and
helped create a truly haunting
atmosphere i highly recommend you all
check out rigor mortis for a truly
unique horror experience you'll not soon
forget my friends as always i hope you
all enjoyed the video thank you all for
tuning in and i cannot wait to see y'all
right back here in the horror mine y'all
stick around